# Very simple program to convert images to 3D STL

This is a set of programs I use to create 3D printable fractals. The main
program imgseq2stl takes a set of 2D black-and-white images and generates a STL
object of all the white pixels. The generated STL file is usually non-monifold,
but that has not caused problems when 3D printing it yet.

The generated files are quite big and need a lot of memory to slice for 3D
printing.

## Usage

```
imgseq2stl --input <imgpattern> --outout <stlfilename> --first <a> --last <b> --threads <t>

<imgpattern>  printf pattern for the input file, like "f-%06d.gif"
<stlfilename> file name for the output file
<a>           Number of first image to use
<b>           Number of last image to use
<t>           The number of threads to use
```

The multi-threading implementation is not very good at keeping all the threads
running and busy, a good value is 20% more than CPU cores available, so on a
4 core CPU with hyperthreading try --threads 10.

## Useful helper programs

These are some very simple programs, they contain no error checking and should
only be used on files generated by imgseq2stl.

### boundingbox.pl

Use `boundingbox.pl <stlfilename>` to show how big the object is in all 3 axes.

### rescale.pl

The imgseq2stl makes every pixel 1 cubic millimeter big. So if you use 4kx4k
pixels as image size the object is 4m wide and deep. To make that 3D printable
you can scale it with `rescale.pl --xscale <x> --yscale <y> --zscale <z>` where
x, y and z are dividers for the 3 axes.

## History
### RELEASE_2019_01_28 Added --threads
This version supports multi-threading using the --threads parameter.

### RELEASE_2018_12_26 Initial release
This is the first version release on github.
